This is Bruges, in Belgium,
known for chocolate, lace and beer.
And this is the Half Moon Brewery.
There is a brewery here for five centuries now.
There were once thirty in this city, but modern production
and making enough beer to meet the demand for export
make that difficult.
Half-moon brewery moved bottling out of town years ago,
about 3 kilometers, but the brewing stayed here.
This was the last brewery in Bruges.
New brewers have recently come up with new ideas,
so we are no longer the only ones,
but certainly the oldest.
Why should we change the location of the brewery?
Logistics is difficult if the entire city is a monumental heritage.
Getting the ingredients into the city was difficult enough
but also allow tankers to drive through the cobbled streets,
fill them with beer and then bring them to the bottler three kilometers away,
Well, they needed a better solution.
So, they made it.
The beer goes directly from the brewing room to the pipeline
and goes from a storage tank here in the center of Bruges
to another tank on the other side in the bottler.
The pipeline is about the size, that is the outer diameter
and there are four tubes of about eight centimeters in diameter.
The beer goes through with about five to six thousand liters per hour.
That is not fast enough to put pressure on, it is relatively slow.
As a result, a load of beer takes about an hour to get to the other side.
The beer enters the facility here and then goes into one of these large tanks,
the lagging takes about three weeks
then the beer is filtered, pasteurized, we add sugar and yeast
and then everything goes in a bottle.
The yeast in the bottle has to do the second fermentation,
and that happens in a warm room.
After the transport we clean the tubes with cleaning agents,
we do disinfection in the tube
and then we flush about three hundred liters of water through it
before beer goes through it again.
Outside the center, next to the highways
normal excavators were fine.
But more creative approaches had to be used here.
Getting a building permit was not easy,
but we were lucky with some forward thinking people in the city
who agreed with the plan and gave us the permit.
The tube is below good, so only under the streets
and not under houses or private areas
and they even drilled from a distance,
so they make a hole on every corner of the street
and then they have a guided drill so they do not
to have to open the whole street to drill.
Four months of construction is not normally found,
but the local people of Bruges thought it was something special.
Local people first thought it was a joke according to me.
People were making a lot of jokes about it
draining the pipeline and getting beer to their home or kitchen.
It would be impossible to connect a pub or even a house to the pipeline,
but, that's why we made it a crowdfunding,
that's where the idea came from,
so that people could contribute to getting some beer for the rest of life,
what a replacement was for having a small tap in their own house!
A big thank you to everyone at the half-moon brewery in Bruges.